# Guru Checks Output

When we refactor code, the behavior should be unchanged.

That means that a record-and-playback style of check
will detect refactoring errors -- provided that we
ensure that we have a test that covers the refactoring
we are going to attempt.

The infinite loop in the code is something of a problem,
but it should be the case that if the input stream is
closed, then the `Reader` will throw a `NoSuchElement`
exception when the input is exhausted, which will yield
control back to the tests, where we can potentially check
the results.

Checking the results, in this case, primarily means
evaluating the effects that the program has had on
its output stream.  I suppose it is also possible to
get cute and review the effect that the program has
had upon its random number generator.

## Hijacking IO Streams

In my initial spikes of this problem, I had dismissed the idea 
of using stream hijacking.  Instead, I had thought that it would
be better to inject the stream dependencies, and work from
there.

Along the way, I discovered two powerful ideas that I had made
a mistake.

As a matter of technique, it is really convenient to be able
to use `git checkout` to access the reference implementation,
and verify the exact behavior we should be maintaining during
the refactoring process.

Also, occasionally I would find unintended bugs in the original
implementation, and trying to coordinate the fixes when there
had been a massive rewrite was inconvenient.

## Branch Coverage

In a world where work is free, I would keep running
out different transcripts to cover all of the interest
edge cases.

Part part of the problem with the code as is: that's a
colossal pain in the butt.  Without fine grained control
of the outcomes from the random number generator, it is
difficult to set up the necessary conditions for certain
behaviors.

## Lifetime

Especially in a program where the desired behaviors are
changing on a regular basis, record-and-playback is a
strategy for short lived tests.

The tests sit as scaffolding - everything that can possibly
break should be double covered -- once by the golden master
and once by a more precisely targeted test.

If we are in that state, and we need to retire a set of
playbacks because of an intended change in behaviors, we can
shoot the playback and rely on the more precise tests
that should be our first line of defense anyway.



[1]: https://stackoverflow.com/a/1119559/54734