# Testability on the cheap

There are three effects in this application that
directly impact deterministic testing.

- console input
- console output
- random number generation

These all contribute to making tests potentially unstable.
What can be done?

## I/O

I/O, in java, is mostly straight forward.  My usual answer
is to arrange for the InputStream and the PrintStream to
be injected into the system under test.

Here, after a couple of experiments, I decided that was the
wrong approach for two reasons.

First, replacing all the calls to System.out was a bit
more disruptive to the original implementation than I liked.
The amount of disruption led me to _copy_ the original
implementation and test the copy.  That decision in turn
rippled further than I would like.

Second, working from `main` allows me to refactor the boundary
between composition of the web of collaborators from the
execution of the program.

## Random

Random is a bear.

In this case -- mostly by accident -- there is only a single
RNG to deal with.  The seed selected by the default constructor
depends both on the System clock _and_ on how many generators
have previously been created.

(I suppose it should be noted in passing that I did _not_
happen to choose a cryptographically secure RNG for the wumpus.)

After some thought, it finally occurred to me that feature toggles
are a common pattern for hiding a change in implementation
from the production code.

It's consistent with that idea to override the default random
number generator with one that uses a fixed seed.

I had considered in fact using the [XKCD generator][1].  Unfortunately,
to do so appeared to lock the behavior into some undesirable fixed
points.  I had noticed a number of times that the inability to
control the random inputs produced a miserable when trying to hit
edge case scenarios; once the hazards are arranged in the
tunnel network, the only way you can shuffle the dice is by visiting
the bats, and if the bats drop you into the pit you get to
start all over from scratch.

But using the XKCD Generator as to produce a random seed seems fine.

It's taking me some thinking to work through how I believe this
should all fit together.  Eventually, I allowed myself to be influenced
by [Mark Seemann][2].  The value associated with the feature flag
should be a class name; something that can be invoked with a default
constructor that figures out its own composition.

I need that code in two places - the production code to ensure
the stable behavior that I need, and the tests -- I think I want
the tests to be able to detect whether or not their own preconditions
are being met.

## Summary

I get all of the testability I'm looking for with a single line
change to the system under test, and a little bit of bespoke
feature work that should be straight forward to replace if
necessary.

[1]: https://xkcd.com/221/
[2]: http://blog.ploeh.dk/2014/05/19/di-friendly-framework/